# Sketch file for olcCodeJam 2021

`0xfadec0de`

## Theme: The Future

While getting philosophical and exploring the nuances of how individual choices 
can affect the future or how knowing a future might result in a different
future, I came into this jam planning on making a shooty-shooty gun-goes-dakka
game, and 9 days (5 of which are workdays) is not enough time to do both. So
explody robots/cyborgs/something else it will be.

## Genre: Twin stick shooter

'Dungeon Warping via Orthographic Projections' is simultaneously a really cool
demo while also being nice and encapsulated (unlike, say, the 3d renderer
series). A twin-stick shooter in an orthographically rendered playspace should
be quite doable, much like DOOM raytracing, because physics is aligned to a 2d
grid, with a clever projection making it feel 3d-ish. However, I don't enjoy
bullet hell games, or games that turn into bullet hell shmups, which is most
twin-stick shooters that I've seen. Therefore, I'll be incorporating gameplay
elements from FPSes (mostly original trilogy Halo) to shift the combat loop to
something I enjoy.

## Story prompt

Cybersecurity has become a lot more hands-on now that we live in the HyperNet.

## Content:

This is a code jam, autogenerated content is king. Therefore, using Wang tiles
to procedurally build dungeons from predefined rooms is my approach. The editor
should be able to make both texture packs and room sets

## PvE

I don't have the experience necessary to do multiplayer (though I think it could
work with the genre. Future effort.) So this will be strictly PvE. That means I
need enemies and enemy AI. I'd _like_ to make a GOAP system to handle this, but
I've never done something that complex before. By weighting different actions
differently, we should get different AI "personalities". Treat the sets of
weights as vectors for mutation and combination and we have ourselves an
evolutionary algorithm we can explore to get differing AI difficulties and
classes. With just a touch of "squad" behavior from certian classes, we should
get fun and emergent AI behavior.

## Schedule:

The ideal case is to get a MVP with weighted GOAP system online by Sunday night,
and run simulation battles overnight and while I'm at work, evaluate the results
Monday evening, add more minor content (mostly rooms and weapons), then run more
simulations. Repeat this over the course of the week and by Friday evening
select a set of AI parameters to deploy. This implies that basic collision,
pathing, weapon damage, agent sensors, and dungeon generation are working by
Sunday night. Rudimentary visualization would be nice to watch an AI fight. AI
fights imply multiple AI teams. Thursday and Friday are entity sprite evenings

Final Saturday and Sunday are polish days:
 - Visual effects like fog of war, point lighting, and/or bloom.
 - Sound effects for weapons, footsteps, taking damage
 - Atmospheric music?
 - Extra enemy types/personalities 

## Entities

Entities are things that interact. Atmospheric entities like rats are passive
and simply run away from combat. Depending on AI growth, there may be room for
friendly entities, or perhaps a conversion mechanic (stretch goal). Enemies are
usually guarding rooms or on patrol routes. Certain objectives may involve
defending a large room from multi-wave fights (stretch goal). Entities are
rendered similarly to Atomicrops' main character, with a flat sprite facing
left/right (mirror symmetry!) and a freely rotating weapon and arm sprite that
tracks the aim direction. This allows the player to see where enemies are aiming
(an idle arm sprite variant would be good). Shields can be simple alpha ellipses
that scale to 0 when down. Grenades and melee need to be telegraphed, though
animation may not be entirely necessary.

## Decor

Decorative entities are sub-block static geometry to give the game more
atmosphere. 

## Controls

Twin stick shooters can also work for keyboard and mouse, with wasd/arrow keys
for motion and mouse for aiming. Two weapons, grenades, and melee are the
primary actions, with a generic interact button for weapon pickup and  other
world interaction

## HUD

I'd like to follow Halo pretty closely here. Minimap in the bottom left, current
weapon and ammo in the top right. Shields and health to the top left, and
grenades/equipment in the bottom right.

## Menu

Immediate mode GUI, perhaps with an OOP twist, but no fancy stuff.

## Aesthetic

Muted vaporwave, lots of greys and dark blues with neon CGA 16-color palette
highlights. Enemies and player are bright and glowy to stick out from the
background blocks.

## Modes

I'll likely leave the editor present on the main menu, as I gain nothing from
keeping it from people, and it might be fun to play with. Being able to load and
enable texture/room packs and AI personalities is a stretch goal. Setting up AI
matches is also potentially fun. Editing parts of a full map and asking the game
to fill in the rest is also a stretch goal.
